# hw5
App Prep and Distribution

This aim of this homework is to finish any unfinished aspects of our application and prepare it for release to the wild Internet. Depending on how far your group got in HW4 this assignment may be a more casual effort or time consuming so plan accordingly.

The first thing you must insure is that your application is fully functional including authentication, cloud storage (Firebase or Parse most likely) and implements some solution (most likely imperfect) for notifications. A number of groups already accomplished this in HW4, but if you haven't you need to do this first before attempting anything else.

Once your app is finished, prepare it for release. The first step is to instrument the app to monitor errors and usage. The monitoring of errors is similar to the example shown in class from AjaxRef Ch2 (http://ajaxref.com/ch2/jserrorreporter.html). While you could roll your own solution, there are numerous commercial services such as Rollbar and Raygun that can solve this problem with little effort on your part. There are many other services, so do not assume that inclusion here indicates these services are those most optimal or easiest to use.

Usage monitoring could also be handled directly if you like, but it is more appropriate to employ a service like Mixpanel. Like error tracking there are other solutions that may be better, so you should explore alternatives particularly if you have trouble. For those teams that used Parse, note that it may be possible to use Parse's analytics service to keep things centralized.

Once you have instrumented your application for monitoring continue your effort by prepping the code itself for publishing. Focus first mainly on preparing the app for optimal delivery. This step would include minification of JS, CSS and HTML as well as bundling of CSS and JS files. You may also explore image spriting, but that is not required. Numerous tools can perform these steps easily. You should look to automate the use of tools as it is likely you will not perform this task only once. Generally a task runner like Grunt or Gulp will be employed.

Finally the most interesting part of the assignment would be exploring how many different ways you might package your JavaScript application for distribution. At this point you have a responsive Web application that should be reasonably viewable on desktop, tablet, and smart phone. However, this app is distributed by URL like a standard Web site/app. While the installation step is nonexistent for such apps, it may have discovery and acceptance issues as compared to apps found in various online stores. It is possible for us to bundle the application you wrote to make it app store ready. For phones utilize the Phonegap framework and create a proof of concept of your app running on Android and/or iOS. You may have to make some modifications to your codebase to package it.

Since there are many other market places available beyond the Apple and Android app stores, you may also explore the creation of a Chrome store/browser app, Mac OSX desktop app, and Windows 10 application for extra credit. These steps may sound daunting, but in fact there are mostly just about wrapping your working application and may be more challenging just to figure out required steps than to actually code. If you find that the design of the app limits packaging issues, you can document such concerns and indicate how you might go about fixing them if you had such time and you may still receive full credit for the packaging effort. Note: Submission to any app stores is not required nor recommended!

Make sure you provide a README.md file for the TA that includes pointers to any services you use as well as login credentials so functionality can be verified for your instrumentation. Your README file should also include a summary of issues encountered and limitations your application may have, particularly around any packaging challenges. If for whatever reason you are not able to accomplish tasks, documenting your experiences factually in the README is the best approach for any partial credit. The TA will also be asking for group participation information to address any problematic work dynamics that may have existed. That request will come separately from the assignment.
